At Phocoea, Homer was destined to experience another literary distress.
One Thestorides, who aimed at the reputation of poetical genius, kept
Homer in his own house, and allowed him a pittance, on condition of the
verses of the poet passing in his name. Having collected sufficient poetry
to be profitable, Thestorides, like some would-be-literary publishers,
neglected the man whose brains he had sucked, and left him. At his
departure, Homer is said to have observed: "O Thestorides, of the many
things hidden from the knowledge of man, nothing is more unintelligible
than the human heart."

Homer continued his career of difficulty and distress, until some Chian
merchants, struck by the similarity of the verses they heard him recite,
acquainted him with the fact that Thestorides was pursuing a profitable
livelihood by the recital of the very same poems. This at once determined
him to set out for Chios. No vessel happened then to be setting sail
thither, but he found one ready to Start for Erythrae, a town of Ionia,
which faces that island, and he prevailed upon the seamen to allow him to
accompany them. Having embarked, he invoked a favourable wind, and prayed
that he might be able to expose the imposture of Thestorides, who, by his
breach of hospitality, had drawn down the wrath of Jove the Hospitable.

At Erythrae, Homer fortunately met with a person who had known him in
Phocoea, by whose assistance he at length, after some difficulty, reached
the little hamlet of Pithys. Here he met with an adventure, which we will
continue in the words of our author. "Having set out from Pithys, Homer
went on, attracted by the cries of some goats that were pasturing. The
dogs barked on his approach, and he cried out. Glaucus (for that was the
name of the goat-herd) heard his voice, ran up quickly, called off his
dogs, and drove them away from Homer. For or some time he stood wondering
how a blind man should have reached such a place alone, and what could be
his design in coming. He then went up to him, and inquired who he was, and
how he had come to desolate places and untrodden spots, and of what he
stood in need. Homer, by recounting to him the whole history of his
misfortunes, moved him with compassion; and he took him, and led him to
his cot, and having lit a fire, bade him sup.

"The dogs, instead of eating, kept barking at the stranger, according to
their usual habit. Whereupon Homer addressed Glaucus thus: O Glaucus, my
friend, prythee attend to my behest. First give the dogs their supper at
the doors of the hut: for so it is better, since, whilst they watch, nor
thief nor wild beast will approach the fold.

Glaucus was pleased with the advice, and marvelled at its author. Having
finished supper, they banqueted afresh on conversation, Homer
narrating his wanderings, and telling of the cities he had visited.

At length they retired to rest; but on the following morning, Glaucus
resolved to go to his master, and acquaint him with his meeting with
Homer. Having left the goats in charge of a fellow-servant, he left Homer
at home, promising to return quickly. Having arrived at Bolissus, a place
near the farm, and finding his mate, he told him the whole story
respecting Homer and his journey. He paid little attention to what he
said, and blamed Glaucus for his stupidity in taking in and feeding maimed
and enfeebled persons. However, he bade him bring the stranger to him.