
Long was the time which elapsed before any one dreamt of questioning the
unity of the authorship of the Homeric poems. The grave and cautious
Thucydides quoted without hesitation the Hymn to Apollo,(20) the
authenticity of which has been already disclaimed by modern critics.
Longinus, in an oft quoted passage, merely expressed an opinion touching
the comparative inferiority of the Odyssey to the Iliad,(21) and, among a
mass of ancient authors, whose very names(22) it would be tedious to
detail, no suspicion of the personal non-existence of Homer ever arose. So
far, the voice of antiquity seems to be in favour of our early ideas on
the subject; let us now see what are the discoveries to which more modern
investigations lay claim.

At the end of the seventeenth century, doubts had begun to awaken on the
subject, and we find Bentley remarking that "Homer wrote a sequel of songs
and rhapsodies, to be sung by himself, for small comings and good cheer,
at festivals and other days of merriment. These loose songs were not
collected together, in the form of an epic poem, till about Peisistratus'
time, about five hundred years after."(23)

Two French writers--Hedelin and Perrault--avowed a similar scepticism on the
subject; but it is in the "Scienza Nuova" of Battista Vico, that we first
meet with the germ of the theory, subsequently defended by Wolf with so
much learning and acuteness. Indeed, it is with the Wolfian theory that we
have chiefly to deal, and with the following bold hypothesis, which we
will detail in the words of Grote(24)--

"Half a century ago, the acute and valuable Prolegomena of F. A. Wolf,
turning to account the Venetian Scholia, which had then been recently
published, first opened philosophical discussion as to the history of the
Homeric text. A considerable part of that dissertation (though by no means
the whole) is employed in vindicating the position, previously announced
by Bentley, amongst others, that the separate constituent portions of the
Iliad and Odyssey had not been cemented together into any compact body and
unchangeable order, until the days of Peisistratus, in the sixth century
before Christ. As a step towards that conclusion, Wolf maintained that no
written copies of either poem could be shown to have existed during the
earlier times, to which their composition is referred; and that without
writing, neither the perfect symmetry of so complicated a work could have
been originally conceived by any poet, nor, if realized by him,
transmitted with assurance to posterity. The absence of easy and
convenient writing, such as must be indispensably supposed for long
manuscripts, among the early Greeks, was thus one of the points in Wolf's
case against the primitive integrity of the Iliad and Odyssey. By Nitzsch,
and other leading opponents of Wolf, the connection of the one with the
other seems to have been accepted as he originally put it; and it has been
considered incumbent on those who defended the ancient aggregate character
of the Iliad and Odyssey, to maintain that they were written poems from
the beginning.

"To me it appears, that the architectonic functions ascribed by Wolf to
Peisistratus and his associates, in reference to the Homeric poems, are
nowise admissible. But much would undoubtedly be gained towards that view
of the question, if it could be shown, that, in order to controvert it, we
were driven to the necessity of admitting long written poems, in the ninth
century before the Christian aera. Few things, in my opinion, can be more
improbable; and Mr. Payne Knight, opposed as he is to the Wolfian
hypothesis, admits this no less than Wolf himself. The traces of writing
in Greece, even in the seventh century before the Christian aera, are
exceedingly trifling. We have no remaining inscription earlier than the
fortieth Olympiad, and the early inscriptions are rude and unskilfully
executed; nor can we even assure ourselves whether Archilochus, Simonides
of Amorgus, Kallinus, Tyrtaeus, Xanthus, and the other early elegiac and
lyric poets, committed their compositions to writing, or at what time the
practice of doing so became familiar. The first positive ground which
authorizes us to presume the existence of a manuscript of Homer, is in the
famous ordinance of Solon, with regard to the rhapsodies at the
Panathenaea: but for what length of time previously manuscripts had
existed, we are unable to say.